---
layout: post
title: MatLab Snippets
date: 2019-03-13
excerpt: "Small code snippets on certain functions in matlab"
tags: [engineering, matlab]
comments: true
---

# Computer Aided Design (Mechanical)

**Meeting 1**: AMDC 402
Time: 16:00 - 18:00 | 4pm-6pm
Date: 21-03-19



###### Tasks assigned: 

The 5 groups of Needs:

1. Anders
   - One person
2. Jimmy
   - Comfortable to ride
3. Sam
   - Tyres
4. Diarmuid 
   - Electric
5. Kartik
   - Control System

###### What should we do before Monday?

- **Look into parts (3DContentCentral GrabCAD?)**
  - Make sure you have a few parts ready so we can discuss them on Monday.
  - If you can't find a model then images and engineering blueprints will suffice. Make sure you document where you got them from too!
- Look into needs (think of additional needs and/or specifying current needs)
- Try to convert into specifications (Details)
- To convert into specs we need to do the research work (Look into designs of frames, for example.)

---

##### Abstract of meeting

We came together to discuss the project as a whole and our approach to the project alongside our tasks for the next four days. Re: tasks this week, there is a limited amount of time avaliable so there is no major expectation to finish some rather demanding requirements, though some work is expected.

We have decided that our group will focus extensively on planning following KC's model of need->specification->etc. This will allow us to have a firmer grasp of the project such that we are all not only on the same page, but have defined and rigid expectations as a foundation. The goal will be to (hopefully) finish the project somewhat early to allow us to both refine and polish the project, for example, adding in features such as security and/or other considerations.

The timeline will roughly be as follows: Week:

1. Initial planning and laying out groundwork of system
2. Deeper delve into specifications

We intend to do *no* modelling work these two weeks so that we can properly plan and lay good foundation.

---



# E-Scooter project

## Needs



## Questions for Tutor

* Should we have to worry about electronics such as ESCs or wires around the scooter?
* What about brake cables?
* How much of our project can we outsource?
* Design--how thorough must our designs be when it comes to details such as suspension.