---
layout: post
title: Torsion in a Rod
date: 2019-03-11
excerpt: ""
tags: [engineering, mechanical, materials, structural, statics, torsion]
comments: true
---

## Torsion

Torsion is the twisting in a bar when a force is applied to rotate it. A good example is a turning a screwdriver to screw in a screw.

Of course, there are wider applications of Torsion and this post will go into detail on Torsion from a mechanical engineering point of view. This page will be fairly barebones until I figure out a simple and efficient way of linking images to this site.

### Torque on a shaft

Any force applied to a shaft that does not intersect with the central line of the shaft (i.e. doesn't point directly at the centre of the shaft) will create a torque, or turning force, on the shaft. This in turn, creates *shearing stresses* on faces *perpendicular to the axis*, that is, on a circular shaft it'd be the circle cross-section.

Consider a very elastic metal shaft (or a very strong person): If the rod is twisted on one end, that end will rotate slightly due to deformation. This rotation is called the *shearing strain* \\(\gamma\\) (measured in rad) such that:

$$
\gamma = \gamma_{max}\frac{\rho}c
$$

Where \\(\c\\) is the radius of the shaft and \\(\rho\\) is the radial distance of the point from the shaft. I'll include an illustrated graphic later.

#### Within the Elastic range

Given Hooke's law: \\(\tau=G\gamma\\), the equation for shearing stress is:

$$
\tau = \frac{\rho}{c}\tau_{max}
$$

The **Elastic Tension Formula** is:

$$
\tau_{max}=\frac{Tc}{J} \qquad and \qquad \tau=\frac{T\rho}J
$$

Where \\(J\\) is the polar moment of inertia.

The important take away is how to derive useful equations from the above formulae. In the case of a circular shaft:

For a solid circular shaft:
$$

$$
